GTFS Carriage Position (#650)
google/transit: gtfs/spec/en/reference.md

A record with empty `route_id` and `direction_id` defines the platform side for all trips serving the platform. Records that specify `route_id` and/or `direction_id` take priority over that default for the trips they match, which allows modeling special configurations, e.g. a platform located on a bidirectional single-track section. When several records match a trip, the most specific one applies, in the following order: (`route_id`, `direction_id`), then `route_id`, then `direction_id`, then the default record.

[carriage_positions.txt](#carriage_positionstxt) `recommended_carriage` counts carriages from the front of the train, so on its own it does not tell a rider where to stand. Consumers pair it with `front_carriage_position` for the platform the rider boards at, from the perspective of a rider facing the track: `recommended_carriage=1` is the carriage stopping at the right end of the platform when `front_carriage_position=1`, and at the left end when `front_carriage_position=0`. Recommendations should only be applied when `front_carriage_position` is known for the boarding platform.

|  Field Name | Type | Presence | Description |
|  ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |

> |  `stop_id` | Foreign ID referencing `stops.stop_id` | **Required** | Identifies the platform.<br><br>Must contain a `stop_id` that identifies a platform (`location_type=0` or empty).<br><br>Values for `stop_id` that identify stations (`location_type=1`), entrances/exits (`location_type=2`), generic nodes (`location_type=3`) or boarding areas (`location_type=4`) are forbidden. |

Reviewer: since `station_directions.txt` is actually concerned with only "stops" or "platforms" (`location_type = 0`), and actually forbids stations (`location_type = 1`), should the name of this file be changed? Possibly to `stop_directions.txt` or `platform_directions.txt`?

Author: Good point, `platform_directions.txt` makes sense to me

> |  `stop_id` | Foreign ID referencing `stops.stop_id` | **Required** | Identifies the platform.<br><br>Must contain a `stop_id` that identifies a platform (`location_type=0` or empty).<br><br>Values for `stop_id` that identify stations (`location_type=1`), entrances/exits (`location_type=2`), generic nodes (`location_type=3`) or boarding areas (`location_type=4`) are forbidden. |

Reviewer: what would an empty `stop_id` in `station_directions.txt` signify? Would this select all stops in one direction? I think this behavior should be clarified

Author: That field is set as required, so you can't have it empty(?)

Reviewer: ahh sorry, I incorrectly read "`location_type=0` or empty" as meaning that the stop could be a stop of `location_type=0` or `stop_id` could be empty. and Github isn't letting me resolve for some reason 🙃

|  `recommended_carriage` | Positive integer | **Required** | The recommended carriage to board, numbered from the first carriage in the direction of travel, which has a value of `1`, as in GTFS-realtime `CarriageDetails.carriage_sequence`. May represent a logical position rather than an exact carriage number. Must be less than or equal to `carriage_count`. |

> |  `carriage_count` | Positive integer | **Required** | Number of carriage positions in this configuration. May represent logical divisions (e.g., 3 for front/middle/back) rather than actual carriage count. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|  `carriage_count` | Positive integer | **Required** | Number of carriage positions in this configuration. If `carriage_count_precision=0` or empty, represents logical divisions (e.g., 3 for front/middle/back). If `carriage_count_precision=1`, represents an exact carriage count. |
|  `carriage_count_precision` | Enum | Optional | Indicates if `carriage_count` represents relative divisions or an exact carriage count. Valid options are:<br><br>`0` or empty - `carriage_count` represents relative divisions (e.g., 3 for front/middle/back). <br>`1` - `carriage_count` is an actual count of discrete carriages. <br><br> If no values are provided, all `carriage_count` values should be considered to represent relative divisions. |
```
@skalexch I had a similar reservation about interpretations of logical vs. exact carriage counts. I think it's important that the producer be able to communicate to the consumer how exactly to interpret these values. What do you and @gcamp think of this option?

Reviewer 3: @nlee-septa +1 for any field that clarifies how the boarding position should be considered.

Just one thought: I'd change the name to something other than "precision" (if there is any word that conveys that the distinction is between _actual number_ and _category_). To me, "precision" give an impression of mathematical approximation.

Author: `carriage_count_is_virtual` would be what I would suggest.  

I think this opens the door to having a label on each carriage, I asked the questions on how to model that in the vehicle proposal [here](https://github.com/google/transit/pull/636#discussion_r3813686720).

Reviewer 2: Maybe `carriage_count_exactness` (or `carriage_count_relativeness`, since the default is "relative")? Or simply `carriage_count_type`, though I prefer more descriptive field names where possible.

Inspiration for this field comes from `stop_times.timepoint`, which conveys a similar meaning of "another field should be taken as exact or inexact". Unfortunately the nomenclature doesn't transfer well.

Reviewer 2: Missed your earlier response, sorry! I like `carriage_count_is_virtual` or `carriage_count_is_relative`.

Author: I'm a bit worried about data duplication with `vehicles.txt` if we do support "real" carriage count. However `vehicles.txt` right now [is not setup](https://github.com/google/transit/pull/636#discussion_r3863681478) to support carriage inside vehicles. 

To get out of the impasse, the only way out I see is : 
- only support virtual carriage count for now
- wait for the vehicles.txt specification to be merged before releasing this

I'd prefer the first option, but let me know if I'm missing some other better in between option.

> |  `via_pathway_mode` | Enum | Optional | Mode of the pathway the rider takes to reach `to_stop_id`, for which `recommended_carriage` is the closest carriage. Valid options are a subset of [pathways.txt](#pathwaystxt) `pathway_mode`:<br><br>`2` - Stairs.<br>`4` - Escalator.<br>`5` - Elevator.<br><br>Riders with different accessibility needs take different pathways out of the same platform, so a producer may publish one record per mode. When empty, the recommendation applies regardless of how the rider continues. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|  `via_pathway_mode` | Enum | Optional | Mode of the pathway (or series of successive pathways) the rider takes to reach `to_stop_id`, for which `recommended_carriage` is the closest carriage. Valid options are a subset of [pathways.txt](#pathwaystxt) `pathway_mode`:<br><br>`2` - Stairs.<br>`4` - Escalator.<br>`5` - Elevator.<br><br>Riders with different accessibility needs take different pathways out of the same platform, so a producer may publish one record per mode. When empty, the recommendation applies regardless of how the rider continues.<br><br>If `via_pathway_mode=2`, the connecting pathway(s) MAY have any `pathway_mode` value.<br>If `via_pathway_mode=4`, the connecting pathway(s), MUST NOT have `pathway_mode=2` (stairs).<br>If `via_pathway_mode=5`, the connecting pathway(s) MUST NOT have `pathway_mode=2` (stairs) or `pathway_mode=4` (escalator).|
```
Adding language like this will prevent a possible conflict where `carriage_positions.txt` indicates an elevator is available, but `pathways.txt` only contains stair pathways.

Reviewer 3: I know that in most stations the hierarchy is this: Either stairs or stairs+escalator or stairs+escalator+elevator.

But to truly avoid conflicts, `pathways.txt` (if exists) should cover all possible pathways for that pair of station nodes.
So a cleaner logic would be:
If `pathways.txt` has at least one entry from `stop_id` to `to_stop_id` or a bidirectional entry between `stop_id` and `to_stop_id`, the value for `via_pathway_mode` should exist in `pathways.txt` for that pair of `stop_ids`.

That would lead to:
1) If pathways for that pair of nodes do not exist, no check is necessary. In this case, `carriage_positions.txt` is the direct source of truth.
2) If at least one pathway for that pair of nodes exists, then all possible pathways should be in `pathways.txt`. In this case, `carriage_positions.txt` is pulling from the COMPLETE source of truth.

Reviewer 2: What if `carriage_positions.txt` indicates that an elevator pathway is available between `stop_id` and `to_stop_id`, but no such pathway is in `pathways.txt`? I think the spec should explicitly state that is not valid, because either `pathways.txt` does not contain all possible pathways, or `carriage_positions.txt` describes a pathway that does not exist (and it's not obvious which file has the error). Alternatively, instruction on which should prevail could be added.

Author: Yes it's for accessibility, but not only. Basically my process was 
1) [IDFM](https://prim.iledefrance-mobilites.fr/en/jeux-de-donnees/positionnement-dans-la-rame) has an "equipment type" value 
2) however the convention in GTFS is to use number enums that represent values, so I initially switched to that
3) If we use a number, might as well use the number we have already, which is the pathway_type

That value can also differentiate between stairs and escalators, even if yes the main purposes is elevators for accessibility purposes.
